1983, 1985 biennium.
It was gratifying to look back over the past 10
years and realize that I had passed five
general appropriations bills in the Texas House
and carried them to the conference committee with
the Senate. and it spanned a decade from 1975 to
1985.
Maybe the only decade in the history of Texas where
there was never a special session on the
appropriations bill and that there was no tax
increase during that time. There was an
elimination of taxes.
We removed the sales tax on utilities. Being a
graduate of Texas A&M, a former employee of A&M,
and residing in Bryan College Station, I know that
during that 10-year period I was perceived as
champion for higher education.
Life somewhat more uncomfortable than if I had had
a different background and lived in a different
location. For years during the the decade 1975 to
85 that we were dealing with double-digit
inflation and rapid enrollments in all of our
programs, including higher education, and an
increase in population in the state.
I am proud of the support that I was able to give
higher education as a whole and Texas A&M
University System in particular. And
statistically speaking, higher education did
fare well, but so did all of state government. M
University, for example, during that 10-year
period, 1975 to 85, had almost a 500% increase in
general revenue appropriations, modest of any
increases in any of the tuition and fees during
that period, while experiencing an enrollment
increase of 67%.
However, all of state government increased its
appropriations during that same period almost
eight times, 800 percent. Factoring out
population and enrollment increases and
inflation indicates
a rather flat enrollment during this period or
flat appropriations during this period for both
higher education and all of Texas state
government. I was proud of the achievements that
we had made and it probably opened the door to other
opportunities. One time I had considered an
appointment to a statewide office where there was
a resignation. Resignations occur, the governor
makes those appointments. And I had first asked
the governor to consider me and had my name
withdrawn because of the fact that I was chairman
of the House Appropriations Committee and want to
disrupt the appropriations process by having to
resign during a regular session. So about this
time that I was asked to consider a run for the U.S.
Congress, the opportunity was there since we had
an open seat in our local congressional district.
I knew enough about serving in Congress that it was
something that did not appeal to me at all. I would
have been willing to stay in the Texas legislature
and could have served for years to come as chairman
of the House Appropriations Committee.
But with a paycheck of approximately $300 a month,
it just did not have its financial rewards. The
Texas legislature, during the time I served,
provided adequately for office expenses and
travel, but has a rather your salary for the time
that it takes to serve. We're fortunate in Texas to
provide adequately for our legislators as far as
their office holder requirements are concerned.
But there is a desperate need to increase the
salary to at least cover the part time that one
spends serving in the legislature. I do not favor a
full time salaried position in the legislature,
but a person should be adequately compensated for
the time that it takes and for the time that he
spends.
In 1983, there was a considerable oil and gas play
in Brazos County, and as a landowner, I stood to
benefit
from the oil and gas play through royalty income on
my property. Very fortunate to be able to lease all
of the land that I owned and have it all drilled. The
income from the flush production in 83 and then
later in 84 was very good but it was of concern to me
that this would not last. No one knew whether the
wells that were being drilled in Brazos County
would have much longevity. And I did not feel like
it was fair to my family to depend on that income for
the future. Out that it was rather short-lived
production But it was nice while it lasted.